README.md, before:

# Dashboard with Flask and ECharts

## Introduction

## Tech Stack

- ✅ python 3.10
- ✅ Flask
- ✅ ECharts (Apache)
- ✅ MySQL under **clever-cloud** database
- ✅ Heidisql
- ✅ selenium
- ✅ ChromeDriver
- ✅ XPath: `find_elements`
- ✅ jquery
- ✅ Ajax
- ✅ SQL-**CTE** (Common Table Expression) / Subquery

## MySQL Database

- Database name: `history` and `details`

```sql
-- create new table
USE YourDatabaseName;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `history`;
CREATE TABLE `history` (
`ds` datetime NOT NULL,
`confirm` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`confirm_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`suspect` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`suspect_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`heal` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`heal_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`dead` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`dead_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
PRIMARY KEY (`ds`) USING BTREE
)
ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4;
;
-- create new table
USE YourDatabaseName;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `details`;
CREATE TABLE `details` (
`id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
`update_time` datetime(0) DEFAULT NULL,
`province` varchar(50) DEFAULT NULL,
`city` varchar(50) DEFAULT NULL,
`confirm` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`confirm_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`heal` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`dead` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
PRIMARY KEY (`id`) USING BTREE
)
ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4;
;

-- create new table
USE YourDatabaseName;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `hotsearch`;
CREATE TABLE `hotsearch`  (
  `id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `dt` datetime(0) DEFAULT NULL ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
  `content` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`) USING BTREE
) ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = UTF8MB4;
```

## 📚 Learn Notes

1. ⛅ Clever Cloud: for MySQL database
   I am always huge fun for learning new cloud services, I worked with **Clever-cloud** for the this project. It has free tier for users, it is enough for our demo projects. Clever-cloud is a French company, it is a PaaS (Platform as a Service) provider. It is similar to Heroku, but it is more powerful than Heroku.

- It supports many languages, such as Java, **Node.js, PHP, Python**, Go, etc.
- It also supports many databases, such as **MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Redis,** etc.
- It also supports many frameworks, such as **Flask**, **FASTAPI**, etc.
- It also supports many other services, such as **Docker**, etc.

I would highly recomment it, especally work with **HeidiSQL** together 👍!

2. ✨ CTE (Common Table Expression) for contional query

```python
def get_r1_data():
    sql = "WITH latest_update AS (SELECT update_time FROM details "\
          "ORDER BY update_time DESC LIMIT 1), " \
          "cte AS (SELECT city, confirm FROM details "\
          "WHERE update_time = (SELECT update_time FROM latest_update) "\
          "AND province NOT IN ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'TianJing', 'ChongQing') "\
          "UNION ALL " \
          "SELECT province AS city, SUM(confirm) AS confirm FROM details "\
          "WHERE update_time = (SELECT update_time FROM latest_update) "\
          "AND province IN ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'TianJing', 'ChongQing') "\
          "GROUP BY province),"\
          "combined_table AS (SELECT city, confirm FROM cte) "\
          "SELECT city, confirm FROM combined_table "\
          "WHERE city IN ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'GuangZhou', 'ShenZhen', 'ChongQing');"
```

- **CTE** (Common Table Expression) means that we can use the result of a query as a table in another query, AKA subquery factoring.
- The purpose for the above query is to get Top 5 cities ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'GuangZhou', 'ShenZhen', 'ChongQing') confirmed cases in real time.
- There is problem in original database, the data for 4 cities ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'TianJing', 'ChongQing') which recorded as sub-provinces, so we need to exclude them in the query firstly, then sum up the confirmed cases when the province is one of the 4 cities ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'TianJing', 'ChongQing').
- **CTE** was used to create a temporary table, which combined the 4 cities and other cities together, then we can get the Top 5 cities confirmed cases.

  💡 **Note**: **CTE** is only available in MySQL 8.0 or above. I like to use subquery and CTE, make the query more logical and unit, and this is good example for using **CTE** for recommendation. 😀

Commit message:

docs: update cloud db notes

README.md, after:

# Dashboard with Flask and ECharts

## Introduction

## Tech Stack

- ✅ python 3.10
- ✅ Flask
- ✅ ECharts (Apache)
- ✅ MySQL under **clever-cloud** database
- ✅ Heidisql
- ✅ selenium
- ✅ ChromeDriver
- ✅ XPath: `find_elements`
- ✅ jquery
- ✅ Ajax
- ✅ SQL-**CTE** (Common Table Expression) / Subquery

## MySQL Database

- Database name: `history` and `details`

```sql
-- create new table
USE YourDatabaseName;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `history`;
CREATE TABLE `history` (
`ds` datetime NOT NULL,
`confirm` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`confirm_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`suspect` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`suspect_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`heal` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`heal_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`dead` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`dead_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
PRIMARY KEY (`ds`) USING BTREE
)
ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4;
;
-- create new table
USE YourDatabaseName;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `details`;
CREATE TABLE `details` (
`id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
`update_time` datetime(0) DEFAULT NULL,
`province` varchar(50) DEFAULT NULL,
`city` varchar(50) DEFAULT NULL,
`confirm` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`confirm_add` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`heal` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
`dead` int(11) DEFAULT NULL,
PRIMARY KEY (`id`) USING BTREE
)
ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4;
;

-- create new table
USE YourDatabaseName;
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `hotsearch`;
CREATE TABLE `hotsearch`  (
  `id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `dt` datetime(0) DEFAULT NULL ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
  `content` varchar(255) DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`) USING BTREE
) ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = UTF8MB4;
```

## 📚 Learn Notes

1. ⛅ Clever Cloud: for MySQL database
   I am always huge fun for learning new cloud services, I worked with **Clever-cloud** for the this project. It has free tier for users, it is enough for our demo projects. Clever-cloud is a French company, it is a PaaS (Platform as a Service) provider. It is similar to Heroku, but it is more powerful than Heroku.

- It supports many languages, such as Java, **Node.js, PHP, Python**, Go, etc.
- It also supports many databases, such as **MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Redis,** etc.
- It also supports many frameworks, such as **Flask**, **FASTAPI**, etc.
- It also supports many other services, such as **Docker**, etc.

I would highly recomment it, especally work with **HeidiSQL** together 👍!

**Cons and Pros:** There was bottleneck for dashboard loading data from cloud, for free tier user, there is **ONLY** 5 Max connection limit, so the data cannot show up in the dashboard when there are many subtables and figures keeping connecting to the database.

2. ✨ CTE (Common Table Expression) for contional query

```python
def get_r1_data():
    sql = "WITH latest_update AS (SELECT update_time FROM details "\
          "ORDER BY update_time DESC LIMIT 1), " \
          "cte AS (SELECT city, confirm FROM details "\
          "WHERE update_time = (SELECT update_time FROM latest_update) "\
          "AND province NOT IN ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'TianJing', 'ChongQing') "\
          "UNION ALL " \
          "SELECT province AS city, SUM(confirm) AS confirm FROM details "\
          "WHERE update_time = (SELECT update_time FROM latest_update) "\
          "AND province IN ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'TianJing', 'ChongQing') "\
          "GROUP BY province),"\
          "combined_table AS (SELECT city, confirm FROM cte) "\
          "SELECT city, confirm FROM combined_table "\
          "WHERE city IN ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'GuangZhou', 'ShenZhen', 'ChongQing');"
```

- **CTE** (Common Table Expression) means that we can use the result of a query as a table in another query, AKA subquery factoring.
- The purpose for the above query is to get Top 5 cities ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'GuangZhou', 'ShenZhen', 'ChongQing') confirmed cases in real time.
- There is problem in original database, the data for 4 cities ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'TianJing', 'ChongQing') which recorded as sub-provinces, so we need to exclude them in the query firstly, then sum up the confirmed cases when the province is one of the 4 cities ('BeiJing', 'ShangHai', 'TianJing', 'ChongQing').
- **CTE** was used to create a temporary table, which combined the 4 cities and other cities together, then we can get the Top 5 cities confirmed cases.

  💡 **Note**: **CTE** is only available in MySQL 8.0 or above. I like to use subquery and CTE, make the query more logical and unit, and this is good example for using **CTE** for recommendation. 😀
